# FAQ

### What is Spark?

**Spark** is on a mission to empower the DAI ecosystem. As part of the MakerDAO community, Spark builds and manages DeFi infrastructure.

### What is SparkConduits?

SparkConduits are a technical component that enables Maker to provide liquidity directly to an external protocol, they are part of the wider Maker Allocation System.

### What is SparkLend?

SparkLend is a decentralised non-custodial liquidity market protocol where users can participate as suppliers or borrowers. Suppliers provide liquidity to the market to earn a passive income, while borrowers are able to borrow in an overcollateralised (perpetually) or undercollateralised (one-block liquidity) fashion. Please join the [SparkDAO Discord](https://discord.gg/sparkdao), the community looks forward to helping you understand and use SparkLend.

### What is sDAI? <a href="#what-is-sdai" id="what-is-sdai"></a>

Savings Dai (sDAI) is an ERC-4626 representation/wrapper of DAI in the Dai Savings Rate (DSR) module. sDAI allows users to deposit DAI to receive the yield generated by the Maker protocol while still being able to transfer, stake, lend and use it in any way you want.“Swapping” between DAI and sDAI does not need to be done via a DEX but can be achieved by depositing and withdrawing from the DSR module.You can interact with sDAI through the frontend at [SparkLend](https://app.spark.fi/sdai/).

### What is SparkDAO?

SparkDAO is a Maker Allocator subDAO. A decentralised, autonomous organisation that owns and manages Spark.\
subDAOs are currently in bootstrapping phase and will be officially launched around May 2024.
